- **Apply yourself to solve problems, even if you don't know how to solve them.** But make sure to clarify that you have yet to learn things.
- **Talk about what's happening with your task.** Any obstacle you face should be notified to the people who are responsible for you. Do not let problems blow when a deadline is closing in.  
- **Write a blog.** The best moment to explain things is when you are learning them. Writing a blog will improve your linear thinking. It doesn't matter if no one views it or if people comment pejorative things about it. The ability to express yourself linearly is extremely valuable.
- **When stuck, take a break.** If things like "How dumb am I?", "This doesn't make any sense!" start to pop in your head, you need to relax. Those thoughts indicate that you are not trying to solve the problem anymore.
- **Coding is not the best you can do.  Helping your team will be more productive.** When you are knowledgeable, you can be the source of [[Force Multiplication]] for your team. You may be faster to deliver a code, but you are still only one person. If you help your teammates, you'll have many more brains to solve problems.
- **Everything is about the business and it all depends.** It doesn't matter if you have 100% coverage tests, a great code base and CD pipelines when you can't deliver value to your client. Would you publish your code to production with a known bug? It depends. What would be the impact on user experience? How many users would suffer from it? Would delay the feature be too problematic?
- **You should have all skills to transform an idea into a real thing.** As a developer, you can bring a lot of great ideas to life. If you only know how to make the backend of an application, what will happen to the frontend or app?
- **Different cultures may communicate differently. Prefer to always be explicit.** If people from different cultures communicate, and conclude a topic assuming what the other person understood from context, that can lead to great misunderstandings. You should always be explicit on who is responsible for what. Also, learning some cultural differences can improve a lot your relationship with colleagues from other places.
- **Understand your client's goals.** When you know your client's objectives, you improve your decision making process and communicate better with your PM. That also leads to a quicker career level up.
- **Bring up the current focus: speed, cost or quality.** A team can only preoritize two out of the three, at a given time. If you align your idea (and reasons why you think so) of which are the current priorities with the PM