#aws #development_career #certification 
- É baseada em componentes
	- **key**: identificação do arquivo, que é o nome do arquivo.
	- **value**: bytes do arquivo.
	- **version**: versão do arquivo.
		- Se um arquivo com a mesma key é subido para o mesmo diretório do bucket, e se a funcionalidade de versionamento está habilitada, o último arquivo receberá uma versão maior que o antigo.
			- **metadata**: dados extras, como tags ou a região em que o arquivo está.
	- **ACL (access control list)**: exclusiva para o arquivo.

## Tiers
- S3 Standart
	- 99,99999999% de disponibilidade
	- Tempo de acesso mili/microsegundos
	- Automaticamente replicado para, no mínimo, 2 availability zone
	- Cobrado por GB
- S3 IA (Infrequent Access)
	- Cobrado por GB mais taxa por acesso a um arquivo
	- Automaticamente replicado para, no mínimo, 2 AZ
- S3 One Zone
	- Cobrado por GB mais taxa por acesso a um arquivo
	- Apenas uma AZ
- Glacier
	- Cobrado por GB, com a menor taxa dentre os outros
	- Possuí um tempo de liberação para o arquivo de 3 a 5 horas

## Types of billing
- Storage. Priced per GiB (gibibyte, which resolves to a little more than the normal GB). I'm not 100% sure on what does the "per GiB" means. When I use AWS Pricing Calculator, if inputted 1,3 GiB it results in a different price than 1,9 GiB. With that, I will assume the worst case scenario: if I have more than 1 GB, even if it's 10 MB more, I'll assume that AWS will bill me for 2 GB.
- Request. Priced per 1.000 requests. PUT, COPY, POST and LIST requests are a little pricier than GET, SELECT and the other request types. 
- Management and Analytics. Priced differently depending on the feature: Amazon S3 Inventory, S3 Storage Class Analysis, S3 Storage Lens, and S3 Object Tagging.
- Data Transfer. We pay for all bandwidth into and out of S3 ([with some exceptions](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/?nc1=h_ls)). When transfering data between services (e.g. S3 and EC2), there's a price for that. If the services are in different Regions, that price will be higher. That's because AWS has to ship your data through cables which are not theirs.
- Transfer Acceleration. When CDN or CloudFront are enabled.
- Replication. This feature's pricing is based on the pricing of what it needs to use. So you are billed for storage on both main and replicated copies, the requests to replicate and check for changes and applicable data transfers and managament features.
- S3 Object Lambda. It's a feature to intercept and execute code on data for S3 GET requests. Just like Replication, its pricing is basically what the services it uses require. Except there is an additional per GB of data returned.